Hello again in this video.
We're going to be creating a nick and some shoulders and without any reference material just slapping
down some muscles for the neck.
But we're giving our head a little bit of a body to connect with.
So let's jump in and get started.
It's the technique I like is to grab our mask tool and then make sure we've got mass it to one so we've
got sharp edges decrease it a little bit and then I'm going to paint where I want the neck to be pulled
out.
You can see it's just a little bit back from the jaw from the chin.
I should say and it goes backwards and then from the base of the head probably around about just make
a little note on our model here ran about there I think at the back.
Is that going to be right.
Yes.
That's pretty good.
Maybe a little bit higher.
And then at the front I want it to be a round about here.
That's where the neck is going to come out yet.
That looks pretty good as well.
So is solid that up and then how close the edge well.
I've got a little of my jaw lining in there already so I can probably paint right up to the edge of
the crease that I have
I can just make it neck shape.
If you're not sure what a neck looks like then find yourself a mirror.
Play around with the thing that's coming out from your head and you get a pretty good idea of how it
all works.
RICKY Now I'm going to hit control I to inverse chief in my grab tool.
Make it nice and big.
So grabbing a big chunk and then in the middle of our neck just pull pull pull pull pull backwards and
downwards.
Take note of the angle it's a little bit backwards okay.
And then back to my mask.
Let's just have a look and see how that goes.
It's not too bad.
There could be a little bit further around the outside but we'll tidy that up in a moment from the front.
That's pretty good as well.
Okay.
So get the mask select a tool hold down control and then just disliked everything.
Excellent.
You can see naturally what I've got here is already a little bit of the neck muscles that that accidentally
happen which is cool.
I don't like all of this stretching that I've got around here kind of bugs me what I'm going to do straight
away so it doesn't bug me as hop on two Clay strips or you could just go straight up clay find out Diane
top and make sure it's not too crazy back down or I think 30 for now is not too bad making a brush size
reasonable strength not super huge.
And then just quickly do a little bit of strip and then smooth it down straight away.
And rid of a strip that's too powerful it's coming out too hot and heavy.
Make it lower just a little bit of a clay strip there.
Bridge the Gap smooth it out makes me smooth.
Kaye just going around a bit smoothing it out getting rid of the stretching that we had when we pulled
the head out holding down shift to smooth.
Now what do we want our shoulders to be let's start grabbing and yanking.
Just yank out some shoulders you see the detail there is a little bit yucky so I'm going to use my snake
OK to increase the size increase the power a little bit.
Point five is fine to see how that goes if we pull this out snake OK too.
It's creating new geometry I think looks a little bit nicer side view at Kay Smeal of this out in a
moment just getting the general shape we can see my computer starting to not be happy with the amount
of detail that's going on this might be something that you need to refine.
If 30 resolutions too much try.
20 is getting the shape for the moment as we've done shape shape shape just as some basic shoulders
were not going to actually model the shoulders properly at this point in time just getting the general
shape of a bust as this is called the head and the top of the shoulders dropped off.
Feel free to exaggerate your shoulders make yourself look buff if that's what you want to do.
You might want to go the other way around make them look a little bit leaner
I'm going to go back to my clay strips I do like the clay strips approaches to lay down a little bit
of geometry and then to smooth it and we can do it the other way round we can hold down control and
kind of do reverse Clay strips then shift I think my throat isn't looking too good let's do a little
bit of add some strips to the side and put a little bit of an Adam's apple in there if you're a dude
not so much of an Adam's apple if you're a lady speed up the video again here I'm using the clay strips
smoothing grab tool to pull things around you might want to look at a reference image if you want to
get the neck and shoulders right I'm just going by memory and at this point I'm going to work on the
Adam's apple just playing down the road of clay and then creasing around the outside of it little bit
of a lump there to show where the Adam's apple would be and readjusting the chin the jaw just constantly
fiddling pushing things around making sure that you're happy with where things are lining out the dimensions
the size going to use the clay strips and the carved tool just to make a little bit of muscular look
and feel in here if you're using a reference model you'll get a lot more accurate than I am but basically
just doing what feels right for me at the moment and you know what if we have enough interest in our
community we can do a course that is more about studying the human form and creating more accurate characters
but for now it's just practicing with the tools using the clay strips laying it down where you think
muscle would be and then digging in between the muscles so you get a good shape for the shoulders and
the neck and the back but I think that's pretty good for now you get the idea of how to make this sort
of neck pulling it out and then adding some curvature to the muscles in the next video we're going to
take on the mouth giving this guy the ability to speak.
See you in the next lecture.